What do these Quotidians have in common?!
204 — Honeybees and Hens…
205 was about the A-Team Problems..
The movie, the top-notch teams in Apple and
the problems there, 375 was about bossing..
Good boss, bad boss, dead boss!
436 was about Despicable Me and we followed
it up with 437!
Despicable You!
What do all these have in common?
There was one thought..
We kept returning to that central theme!
Yes..
That famous “DonkeyPit”!
This is the person who introduced it..
Who is he, and what are the six questions
he has gifted us..
Let us dive in!
Namaste!
Four hundred and forty eight, is about the..
yes.. the repeat.. of the DonkeyPit!
How do you assess them?
How do you even know, detect, for sure, that
there is a problem?
Related to DonkeyPits!?
We have encountered this book earlier too.
And, in one of the chapters of this book,
are the six questions that we are going to
look at.
The Survival Guide — by Robert Sutton.
He starts by saying, “Do not have knee-jerk
reactions!
Do not immediately label a person!”
He refers to this famous book..
He says, “Don’t just do something, Stand
There!”
It is the opposite of…
“Don’t just stand there, DO SOMETHING!”
I am sure you get the joke.
So, understand, analyse, take it all in, suffer
through for a while if needed, all the while,
answering these six questions, and then, this
book might be useful to you..
The Survival Guide.”
What are those six questions?
Question Number One is..
“Hey, do you feel as if this person is treating
you like dirt?
Like trash?
As if you aren’t worth five paise?
Are they sucking all energy from you?
Are they..
Are you feeling de-energised?
When you come back after having a conversation
with a person, instead of feeling rejuvenated,
are you feeling deflated?
Being treated in an inhuman manner?
In an almost subhuman manner?
That respect…
Thanks for treating me as a fellow-human-being..
they say, don’t they?
That respect, is it absent?” — he asks.
I am asking all these six questions from the
context of the great epic, Mahabharatha.
I am going to look for examples from there.
For the first question, we don’t need to
look for examples.
The Mahabharatha ITSELF stems out of this..
Draupadi insulting Duryodhana.
Duryodhana insulting Draupadi.
Dusshasana insulting Draupadi.
Karna being insulted.
Why..
Let us go back in time.
How about Vyasa being insulted by one of the
wives?
Dhrtharashtra being insulted.
Pandu being insulted..
A War of Insults.
A War of DonkeyPits trying to go one up on
each other.
So, ask that question.
How am I feeling during and after my interaction
with this person.
Oh..
Also, how am I feeling when I am about to
get into an interaction..
Oh my god, should I do it with this person?
Should I ask this person for permission?
That fear..
That hesitation..
That disgust..
Despicability.
That is a good question to start.
Question Number Two is..
“How long is this going to persist?”
For, most of the times, most of these interactions,
these behaviours, these scenarios, are time-bound.
Probably for the launch of a product, probably
to go past a particularly hard phase, yes,
you are forced to be unlike yourself.
Friendly person becomes antagonistic.
Nice guy becomes thorny.
Friendly lady stops talking to you.
Will happen.
May happen.
Nothing wrong.
Everything depends on how much longer.
Remember the incognito period from The Mahabharatha?
That is what Draupadi does!
She becomes Sairandhri.
The lady who takes care of the hair-dressing
of the Princess.
SHE HERSELF is a Princess.
locks of hair on her own head, she becomes
the hairdresser for some little kingdom..
Virata.
And, not to mention, you have the usual tragedies
of eve-teasing, sexual-harassment, too.
But the question in her mind is, “How much
longer is this anyway?
I have my husbands.
I am superconfident about them.
This too shall pass..!”
Most pain, … as noted in Viktor Frankl’s
book, “Man’s Search for Meaning”, can
be actually withstood..
can be handled..
Why does it come, how much longer will it
last, what comes after it, what’s the purpose,
if we have answers to these questions and
understand the situation, .. we can handle
this pain quite well.
So, that’s Question Number Two.
Question Number Three — Is this Temporary?
Or, is it Certified?
We have seen this earlier too, this dichotomy
between Temporary and Certified..
Where does this originate?
Well, it is impossible for people to maintain
equanimity in all sorts of situations.
Covid could have brought the worst out of
you.
A competitor launching a product ahead of
you could have pissed you off.
You are the CEO of a company, and the product
doesn’t perform during a demo as promised..
Happened to the great Steve Jobs, one day!
That can make you livid.
So, ALL OF US, EVERY SINGLE ONE OF US, have
the permission to be TRUE DonkeyPits at least
a couple of times in our life!
And, we shouldn’t be afraid, we shouldn’t
feel bad, we can’t get angry, at those people!
For, you yourself have been like that too!
Perhaps during the same time!
But, this Certified bit?
Anywhere, anytime, with anybody, they are
like this ONLY!
Karna was a DonkeyPit.
Duryodhana was a DonkeyPit too.
Why..
Even Bhima, Arjuna, and the great Yudhistra
himself, have let things slip..
Have been DonkeyPits..
Temporary ones.
But, when it comes to the PERSONIFICATION
of the quality..?
Anything this person does, to anybody, at
any time, is filled with maleficence.
Is loaded with rudeness.
Derision..
When you look for somebody like that, you
can perhaps settle on the Shakuni character..!
Even Duryodhana himself was shivering when
interacting with his Uncle, Shakuni..
He was never sure what grand machinations
were happening in his evil mind, aimed at
cheating even Duryodhana!
Yes, he says it in as many words, in The Mahabharatha!
That is the question you need to ask.
Is this person temporarily behaving like a
DonkeyPit?
Or, is this person Certified?
Anything this person does, at any time, with
anybody, is this how he is?
Is he like Shakuni??
What’s Question Number Four?
Question Number Four is..
Is this Systemic or Individual?
Good company..
Good team..
Nice environment to work.
But, this person is like a single drop of
potent venom… in the midst of all that.
Tolerable.
The problem comes only when it is Systemic..
Wherever you turn, whoever you look at, they
are DonkeyPits!
I am sure you remember this scene from The
Mahabharatha.
This probably summarises the epochal events
of The Mahabharatha.
Draupadi is being insulted, disrobed.
And, up there in the throne, the King currently
ruling, is sitting there eyes closed.
Oh..
He is blind.
The Queen is sitting with her eyes blindfolded.
The brothers..
99 brothers.. have nothing to say, except
probably one guy, who is disregarded..
These five husbands, not one, five husbands,
are bound, by moral law.
They are told they don’t even own this wife
any more..
The adults, the seniors, the grand old men,
the respected venerable gurus, uncles, grandparents,
.. they remain silent too, having their own
convoluted explanations for why whatever wrong
is happening is actually justifiable.
So.. the question Draupadi asks there before
bringing down all the curses, the choicest
curses she can pick..
She plots the downfall of The Kuru Kingdom..
based on the events of those two minutes..
But before that, the question she asks is,
“Is this one person?
This guy? Or, is this Systemic?
Is the whole city to blame?
The whole Kingdom?
(Like the famous Kannaki did, in Tamil literature?)”
And, only then, this happens.
Alright, what’s Question Number Five?
Question Number Five is the Power Equation.
Yes, there exists a DonkeyPit, as described..
Fine.
But, do you even get to interact with them?
Are you in the same critical path?
Can you completely ignore them?
Can you live parallel lives?
A large enough company…
you can tolerate each others’ presence.
You can assume the other person doesn’t
exist.
The DonkeyPit is famous for doing that, by
the way!
OR, are you subordinate, and hence you have
to report?
Which is trouble…
OR, are you the superior.., like in this case?
Shishupala, the Sethi King, insults Lord Krishna,
during Yudhishtra’s coronation.
The
friction has been present right from childhood…
He starts insulting.
Lord Krishna had given a promise to Shishupala’s
mother..
That he would tolerate.
That he would tolerate this DonkeyPit.
He tolerates Shishupala one hundred times..
ONE HUNDRED TIMES!
Shishupala hurls the choicest invective at
The Lord..
And, at that time, the spinning wheel weapon
comes whirling, and does what it does best!
So, .. tolerance.. because He knows His power.
That He could do it ANYTIME anyway…
That confidence.
In modern day, you would probably equate it
to, “If you are confident you can quit this
job and get a better one.. you will handle
a DonkeyPit very differently than when you
feel you are stuck at this job because it
is paying you so well, it is tolerating your
weaknesses, you don’t know what your market
value is, you are afraid to quit..”
Won’t you agree?
That brings us to the last question.
Question Six.
Are you even really suffering??
Both these scenes .. they are related.
Up there is Pandu..
Pandu goes to the jungle, taking early Sanyaas.
For he cannot indulge in marital pleasures.
While going, he says.., “I have never been
more peaceful, more calm, and more happy than
I am now at this moment!”
I don’t know what the wife thought about
it, but that’s what he says..
And so, it is not any sort of banishment for
Pandu..
All the people who felt bad for him were not
understanding the reality..
The same thing happens, in the next generation
too.
When the Pandavas are sent into the jungles
for thirteen long years, even though Yudhishtra
felt regretful in the beginning, through his
journey, he learns so much, meets such amazing
people, realises the true reality of the Self,
gets enlightened, so much so that, he quips,
“I think all that happened is for good..
I have never felt this happy and contented..
With an opportunity to learn so many new things
every day..
I thank my stars!”
Draupadi actually gets enraged when she hears
this..
But, that is how good Yudhishtra feels!
Why am I saying this?
Many times, there is a DonkeyPit, but we stop
with just identifying the DonkeyPit.
But, who are the people FEEDING that DonkeyPit?
For every person who behaves so badly, who
behaves boorishly, rudely, probably there
is this alter-ego counter-person who seems
to enjoy being treated like that..
And, don’t think I am talking through my
hat..
I have seen so many such instances personally,
in my life..
They seem to attract each other..
The person with the whip, and the person ready
to be whipped..
That’s the sixth question, and that leads
me to my closing thought.
They call them a Sadist..
Those who derive happiness by causing pain
to others!
There is another group of people called Masochists..
Who are they?!
Well, they derive happiness by causing THEMSELVES
pain!
They pain themselves so they can be happy!
I remember a funny one from a book I read.
This girl.. is a masochist.
She likes that pain radiating from the palm,
throughout her body..
She asks the teacher, “Do it..!
I haven’t done the homework!
Do it, hit me!”
The teacher is a sadist..
He..
Okay..
She, likes offering pain!
Oh.. they also know that this student is a
masochist..
So, what do they do?
They raise.., but before slamming it down,
“I won’t!!”
Catch my point?
We will meet you in two days!
Thank you!